[Identity] Add architecture decision log (#39477)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-js: sdk/identity/identity/design-decisions.md

otherwise surprising three-second minimum initial delay.

### Native cache and editor integrations are plugins, not base-package dependencies

PR [#15384](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/15384) (2021-06)

Persistent OS-protected caching and VS Code authentication required native or
environment-specific dependencies. Bundling them into `@azure/identity` caused install and
portability problems, while exposing raw MSAL extension points would leak an upstream
implementation detail into the public API.

The extension API—later named `useIdentityPlugin`—therefore exposes a narrow, sanctioned
dependency-injection surface. First-party packages install cache or broker capabilities at
runtime, and the base package gives an explicit unavailable error when the required plugin
has not been registered.

Keep plugin controls narrow. A plugin should provide a capability, not grant arbitrary
access to MSAL internals or turn optional dependencies back into hidden hard dependencies.

### Per-request tenant selection is constrained by credential-level policy

PRs [#15837](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/15837),

> [#23174](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/23174) (2021-06, 2022-09)

Reviewer: This is grouping PR of two different years, if we're sorting them by year) Also, would it make more sense to have the year/ date of a PR right behind that PR link instead of listing all PRs and all dates respectively?

The eventual v3 design requires the requested tenant to match the configured tenant unless
it appears in `additionallyAllowedTenants` (or the caller explicitly opts into `"*"`).
This is security policy, not input validation boilerplate. New MSAL flows must pass through
the same multi-tenant processing rather than forwarding `options.tenantId` directly.

### CAE capability moved from a global default to a per-request choice

PRs [#15390](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/15390),
[#26614](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/26614) (2021-08, 2023-08)

Continuous Access Evaluation initially enabled MSAL's `CP1` capability globally, with an
environment-variable escape hatch. This made all applicable tokens CAE-capable even when
the resource request did not require it.

The design later moved to `GetTokenOptions.enableCae`, making CAE a property of a token
request. Persistent cache plugins keep CAE and non-CAE data under distinct cache suffixes
so a token acquired under one capability does not satisfy the other path accidentally.
Claims and `enableCae` must therefore remain request-scoped all the way to MSAL.

---

> ## 2022 — Multi-tenant hardening and removing fragile developer state

Reviewer: Not sure about the correctness of this title. The credential is removed from default chain but the context for "multi-tenant hardening" does not seem correct to me.

This predates me joining Identity crew, so I'll defer to @KarishmaGhiya for this

### VS Code authentication was removed from the default chain when its storage contract became unreliable

> PR [#22851](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/22851) (2022-08)

Reviewer: The PR does not has any description but the actual rationale behind the decision is in the issue [20500](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/issues/20500) and [here](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-azure-account/issues/443) Might want to summarize those issues for better context behind the rationale of this entry

The type remained available for compatibility, but the chain did not restore VS Code
authentication until it could use a supported broker/SSO integration in 2025. This history
matters when considering direct reads of another tool's private cache: local availability
does not make the storage format a supported authentication contract.

---

## 2023 — Workload identity, developer-chain continuation, and broker integration

### Workload identity is a first-class credential before managed identity in DAC

PR [#24830](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/24830) (2023-02)

Kubernetes workload identity exchanges a projected federated token with Microsoft Entra ID.
Although AKS-related token exchange had previously appeared inside managed-identity logic,
the protocol is an application assertion flow with its own required environment variables
and failure modes.

Making `WorkloadIdentityCredential` explicit lets applications use it directly and lets
`DefaultAzureCredential` place it before `ManagedIdentityCredential`. Preserve that order:
workload identity is selected from explicit federation configuration, while managed
identity may otherwise fall back to probing IMDS.

> ### Developer credentials continue through local-tool failures; deployed credentials do not

Reviewer: I'm not sure `deployed credentials` is the right term. This section summarizes the PR instead of providing the reasons behind the decision

PRs [#26277](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/26277),
[#26684](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/26684) (2023-06/08)

Developer machines commonly have several partially configured tools. The team therefore
decided that failures from developer-time credentials in `DefaultAzureCredential` should

> be normalized to `CredentialUnavailableError` so the chain keeps trying local tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be normalized to `CredentialUnavailableError` so the chain keeps trying until a token is obtained or the chain is finished.
```

`AzureDeveloperCliCredential` was also moved after Azure CLI and Azure PowerShell to avoid

> changing the identity selected for existing developer setups.

Reviewer: Not sure if this reason is accurate for the ordering change. Also this change does not fit with this section

packages and fields.

---

## 2024 — Constructor safety and consolidation on MSAL

### `DefaultAzureCredential` defers sub-credential construction failures to `getToken`

PR [#28264](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/28264) (2024-01)

The old DAC implementation used specialized subclasses and flexible constructors so every
credential could be instantiated while building the chain. This caused three problems:
unused credentials could throw during DAC construction, public constructors became more
complex for an internal chaining scenario, and adding a credential required another
subclass.

DAC now uses factory functions. If a factory cannot construct its credential, DAC inserts
an `UnavailableDefaultCredential` carrying the reason; the chain logs and skips it during
`getToken`. This keeps `new DefaultAzureCredential()` side-effect-light and creates a
repeatable pattern for adding credentials without weakening their standalone constructors.

Options that intentionally validate DAC itself, such as `requiredEnvVars` or an invalid
`AZURE_TOKEN_CREDENTIALS` value, still fail at construction. The rule is to defer

> sub-credential availability, not all configuration errors.

Reviewer: This is not relevant/ related to this PR and doesn't happen till 2025

Once MSAL shipped `ManagedIdentityApplication`, `ManagedIdentityCredential` migrated to it
without offering a permanent switch back to the legacy implementation. Two SDK-owned
special cases deliberately remain:

- AKS token exchange, which MSAL did not implement.
- IMDS availability probing, which lets DAC fail fast and continue when it is not running
  in a managed-identity environment.

Identity also disables MSAL's internal retries and supplies the managed-identity retry
policy through its Azure Core transport. This avoids stacked retry loops and preserves the
IMDS-specific `404`/`410` behavior. “Use MSAL” does not mean deleting these adaptations
until MSAL provides equivalent semantics.

---

## 2025 — Explicit chain selection and silent broker credentials

### `AZURE_TOKEN_CREDENTIALS` narrows DAC without creating new credential classes

PRs [#34301](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/34301),
[#34966](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/34966),
[#36047](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/36047) (2025-05/10)

The complete DAC chain is convenient for development but can be unnecessarily broad in

> production, where spawning CLI and PowerShell processes adds latency and surprising

Reviewer: The main drive for this feature is for security reasons to make sure it's a deterministic chain in the production environment. This feature is done over 3 phases and each phase has a separate goal

fallbacks. `AZURE_TOKEN_CREDENTIALS` therefore selects the production group, developer
group, or one named credential while retaining the same `DefaultAzureCredential` API.

When the value selects only `ManagedIdentityCredential`, DAC disables the IMDS probe. The
caller has explicitly selected managed identity, so fail-fast discovery is no longer useful
for advancing to another credential and would only add latency.

Unsupported values fail during construction rather than silently falling back to the full
chain. Configuration intended to restrict authentication must never degrade into a broader
authentication policy.

> ### Broker and VS Code credentials in DAC must be silent-only

Reviewer: We might want to separate these 2 out into their own entries

PRs [#35150](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/35150),
[#35213](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/35213) (2025-07)

VS Code returned to DAC through a supported broker-based SSO path rather than by reading
VS Code's private token storage. A separate `BrokerCredential` was also added near the end
of the developer chain.

Both default-chain uses are designed to acquire an existing account silently. DAC must not
unexpectedly open UI during an SDK client request. Interactive broker behavior remains
available through explicitly constructed credentials, while the DAC factories configure
automatic authentication off and treat the absence of a broker account as unavailable.

---

> ## 2026 — Runtime-specific modules and tree-shakable imports

Reviewer: I'm not sure if both of these PRs are considered important architecture decision, given that they are cleaning up imports

`@azure/identity` contains many credential flows and large MSAL dependencies, but most
applications use only one or two. Namespace imports and shared modules can cause bundlers
to retain unrelated flows even when `package.json` declares `"sideEffects": false`.

The package moved toward named imports and `#platform/*` runtime mappings so bundlers can
discard unused credentials and choose Node, browser, or workerd implementations without
source-level runtime branching. The initial named-import cleanup reduced a single-credential
bundle by roughly 60 KB; the platform import migration made the boundary explicit in the
module graph.

Avoid convenience barrel imports in internal hot paths when they reconnect otherwise
independent credential flows. Bundle structure is not merely build tooling here—it affects
whether users pay for every authentication mechanism when importing one.

---

## Recurring patterns worth internalizing

1. **Azure SDK owns the credential contract; MSAL owns OAuth protocol behavior.** Keep
   logging, tracing, pipeline options, cross-language API shape, and error translation in
   the SDK layer.

> 2. **Chain continuation is policy.** Only expected unavailability should advance a chain;

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this pattern means. We now use different terms for developer vs production chain and there's no special permissive treatment between them

   developer credentials receive intentionally more permissive treatment than deployed
   credentials.
3. **Constructors should describe configuration, not probe the machine.** DAC factories

>    defer optional credential failures to `getToken`.

Reviewer: The two sentences don't seem to be describing the same thing, maybe make a DAC-specific pattern instead would be more helpful

> 4. **Managed identity is not ordinary HTTP.** Environment detection and IMDS retry rules

Reviewer: There might be better way to phrase this to say MI has 2 specific protocols that SDK implement while MSAL perform token acquisition
